
# It's Rewind Time! 
*(SIX WEEKS IN, AND I'M STARTING OVER!!)*


 
## Overview:
So after the realization that support for using ruby when interacting with the Google calendar API is basically non-existent, I abadonded all efforts with ruby , and I went onwards to other more popular languages that could interact with Google calendar API.  


## Trying out JAVA 
My first attempt for this week at a new language was trying to use java. In reality, though, this whole attempt in using this language was actually a mistake. Originally my plan was just to try to use javascript- being that I do have some familiarity with using it before. Initially, I was trying to do the quickstart tutorial for javascript found [here](https://developers.google.com/calendar/quickstart/js) but did not read carefully and mistook [this](https://developers.google.com/calendar/quickstart/java) tutorial regarding the Google calendar API in Java for the one about using Javascript. Once I realized though, I figured I would continue to follow through with what I already started and see how far I could get without running into major problems. 
It didn’t take much time for this to happen though since issues arised almost instantly (of course, I mean- what else did you expect?)

I set up my file structure as shown in the tutorial and made new credentials for the API just for Java, but to run the code in the tutorial it required an automation tool called Gradle. I thought it would be pretty simple to download this tool but with my luck, it took a long time to figure out. What made it difficult was that I was using an IDE called cloud 9, instead of running code on my own computer (when it comes to this blog, problems with cloud 9 are strong with this one). So even though tutorials like ones shown on Gradle's [website](https://gradle.org/install/) seem pretty cut and dry, for cloud 9 use, it didn’t make sense to me. It seemed impossible to download until I found [this](https://seenukarthi.com/clould9/2014/08/31/gradle-in-cloud9-ide/), an article made just for people like me. It took a while to set up because, I continuously found myself ignoring steps, or taking shortcuts. For example, when it said to change the directory to the root directory, I thought it was a pretty unnecessary step and ignored it. It was only when errors started popping up that I realized that it makes more sense to follow the tutorial than to trust my own instincts on something I don’t even understand. Once Gradle seemed to be working, I tried to run the actual code from the tutorial. It took a while, as there was apparently a lot of things to load/download but eventually I got something. 
It was another error that I got multiple times, even though I repeated the whole process with downloading Gradle to cloud 9 and everything it says in the quickstart tutorial by following each step by the letter. It was it at this point that I decided I had no patience to go down rabbit holes within this language, so I went to the next one.  

## My attempt with JAVASCRIPT
If you thought my attempt with Java was a headache then my attempt with JavaScript is a head explosion, but I’ll shorten it for the sake of. It all started with the API credentials, which happened to be the most difficult part of using this API with JavaScript. Long story short, I spent hours trying to set up the API in JavaScript without reading the entire [tutorial](https://developers.google.com/calendar/quickstart/js) first. I started by using [this link](https://console.developers.google.com/start/api?id=calendar) that I got from the tutorial, a wizard to help get the credentials that one will need make API requests, which is always the first step in using APIs. However, in trying to follow the steps of the wizard, it seemed that a lot of authorization was required just to make API calls with a web browser. First, just by me specifying the type of information I wished to access using the API through Javascript, alerts showed that if I ever wanted to publically publish my code, I would need verification from Google themselves as explained in this [link](https://support.google.com/cloud/answer/7454865?hl=en). Besides that, my application required an authorized domain that does not contain file paths. The link also stated the need for ownership to be verified by uploading a verification file from Google to my website. This was a ton of work that I struggled doing by myself for apparently no reason as Google describes step by step how to use the credentials wizard, which I would’ve known, had I strictly follow the steps listed in the Google Calendar API JavaScript tutorial. Even so, after checking each of my steps to ensure it was done properly, the light of success at the end of the tunnel of failure seemed very dim as I approached my final problem. The tutorial requires for code to run on a local server listed as ``` http://localhost:8000 ```, and running servers that can be previewed does not seem like something I could do in cloud 9 which poses a huge problem. Like I said before, domains that run code involving javascript making google calendar API requests require an authorized domain without file paths, which is why it would make sense to run code on that server. Nonetheless, to preview the code in cloud 9, it previews it in a link such as ‘https://preview.c9users.io/travism7618/ruby/vgsecretary.github.io/index.html?_c9_id=livepreview0&_c9_host=https://ide.c9.io’ which cannot be authorized because of all its file paths, and because it is a public domain and not a private local server. 



## Next steps
Being that the present issues hinge on cloud 9, the most logical step is to try to utilize another IDE that can be used for this API while keeping in mind other ways that the final product of an automated google calendar scheduler can be completed. 

## Takeaways

“Slow is smooth, smooth is fast”
Many times moving fast or rushing through things leads to recklessness and sometimes _huge_ mistakes. Yet, if you take your time, and act carefully, you save the time that you would have wasted if you would have rushed through it. With me, I could’ve saved plenty of hours had I just taken the time to read tutorials or articles carefully, without just skimming through or making assumptions.
